# Study Material for Javascript

## Table of contents
-What is Javavscript ?
-Rebase and Squash
-Syntax and Basic Constructs
-Bibliography

## Content

### What is Javascript?
Javascript is a dynamic programming language that's mainly used for web development, in web applications, for game development, and lots more. It allows you to implement dynamic features on web pages that cannot be done with only HTML and CSS.

Internal:
The script codes are presented in the same HTML
<script> code </script>

External:
In our index.html, we could simply replace the Javascript area with 
<script src='script.js'></script>

The script.js  contains the location of the javascript.

Javascript codes are usually placed in the head tag (usually when the page would require some of the codes) or in the body tag very close to the close tag - </body>. 

### Syntax and Basic Constructs
#### Every statement should end with a semi-colon, ;
#### Comments
// Comments all the line

/* comments 
All the lines
Between */



#### Data Types
The following are JavaScript primitive data types: String, Number, Boolean(True or False), undefined(If we don't assign a value to a variable, the value is undefined), Null(an empty value.), and Symbol.

String: A collection of one or more characters between two single quotes, double quotes, or backticks.

Number: Integers: Integer (negative, zero and positive) and Float-point numbers: Decimal number.
Symbol: A unique value that can be generated by Symbol constructor
Non-primitive data types in JavaScript includes:

Arrays:
let nums = [1, 2, 3]
nums[0] = 10


#### Variables
Variables are named values which store data. In JavaScript we declare our variables with the var, let or const keywords, and we assign values with the equal sign =.

let firstName = 'Asabeneh' // first name of a person
let lastName = 'Yetayeh' // last name of a person
let country = 'Finland' // country
let isMarried = true
const gravity = 9.81 // earth gravity  in m/s2
const boilingPoint = 100 // water boiling point, temperature in °C



#### Operators

Arithmetic Operators: Addition +, Subtraction -, Multiplication *, Division /, Modulus %, Increment ++ and Decrement –.

Assignment Operators: =, /=, *=, %=, -=, +=  (operator and assignment).

Comparison Operators: = = (Equal), != (Not Equal), > (Greater than), < (Less than), >= (Greater than or Equal to), <= (Less than or Equal to).

Logical Operators: && (Logical AND), || (Logical OR), ! (Logical NOT).

### Bibliography

https://dev.to/dillionmegida/syntax-and-basic-constructs-65

https://www.easeout.co/blog/2020-10-19-javascript-syntax-structure/

https://github.com/Asabeneh/30-Days-Of-JavaScript
